---
layout: child
title: Advanced
---

# Advanced Html Generation

reveal-ck supports creating slides in [Html][reveal-ck-html], but once
you've mastered Html you may find this too limiting.

[reveal-ck-html]: ../html

And so, reveal-ck supports creating slides using the following
technologies:

* erb
* haml
* slim
* textile

## Approach

First become comfortable with creating slides in Html, and then
convert over your presentations to the templating language of your
choice.

To do this, put your slides content into a file named:

* slides.html.erb
* slides.haml
* slides.slim
* slides.textile

And then run `reveal-ck generate` and it should "just work."

## But..

Nothing "just works," and so when you encounter a problem remember the
following:

> The content you put into your slides files is transformed into Html
> and placed into the slides directory at `slides/slides.html` before
> it is spliced into the final `slides/index.html` file.

This means that you can troubleshoot what's being generated by looking
at this intermediate file.

## contents_of

Some languages allow you to invoke functions when generating
Html.

reveal-ck provides one such "helper" function out of the box, and this
function is named `contents_of`.

It allows you to "inline" an arbitrary file into your slides.

If this is interesting to you, you can read more in
[the relishapp documentation for contents_of][relish-app-contents-of].

[relish-app-contents-of]: https://relishapp.com/jedcn/reveal-ck/docs/contents-of-insert-files-into-slides

## data

If you'd like to keep your data separate from your slides files, you
can place it in your config.yml.

For example, imagine your `config.yml` contained:

<pre>
  <code class="yaml">
data:
  arbitrary_value: 42
  </code>
</pre>

And your slides where in a file named `slides.html.erb`, and
contained:

<pre>
  <code class="html">
&lt;section&gt;
  &lt;h1&gt;Slide &lt;%= config.data['arbitrary_value'] %&gt;&lt;/h1&gt;
&lt;/section&gt;
  </h1>
  </code>
</pre>

Then you'd end up with a Slide 42.

This can be helpful if you're referring to the same information in
several places, or if your the data (say, a URL) is more easily
remembered with a simple config/data combination.
